So moving on from the last video, let's look at some list examples, we're going to create a new class
here.
We're going to call it list example.
Plus, the current.
This is using the collections test class that we've created in this section.
They're using it to exercise the collection interface tests with an instance of an array list of string.
And you can see we're going to need method there.
There's our list of string.
And they were calling to do stuff with collection method on line 21 to run this.
As a result.
So the output's demonstrating that Israelis cannot knows that Israelis can have duplicate elements and
also that a royalist is ordered by an index which is inferred when creating a new list.
But so next, what we're gonna do is test some list specific methods, you already know that you can
access elements via an index and I listed in slides in the previous video the many things you can do
with index specific methods.
So let's create a new method in this list example class to exercise some of these methods.
OK, so this method.
Do simple stuff.
That's specifically what I'm doing in this method, I'm demonstrating the methods and this you can see
they're like 28 at all.
I'm 34.
Also going to sit there.
I'm 37 index of like 40.
As well as is 43, that the last index of a line 50.
Couple of things to note here with the admitted online 28, if you pass an index, it doesn't return
a boolean, as does the collection not admitted, but also the methods index of a loss index of what
you're using on screen there.
Now, the return to minus one of the elements not found.
Remember, the duplicate values are allowed in a list.
So let's run this.
And there's the apple.
Which, of course, is identical because I haven't added a method to actually test this.
All right, so there's the code in our main method to call this through simple stuff method.
Let's run this now.
Now you can see the results and security methods on the list, but I want to look at several of the
more interesting methods of the list interface.
We're going to add this to our main method, this time the bottom.
There it is, and I just accept that import.
Specifically, what I'm doing here, I'm creating a surplus of three elements from the array list names
list and assigning them to a new list variable called Short List.
And after that, I'm then ordering in reverse order is incorporated reverse order.
So you can see there.
And I'll be discussing that in more detail in a little bit here.
But suffice to say here that it reverses the order of the list by the natural ordering of the elements
of the list.
So if you run this now.
So looking at the sublist, few output reveals that short list is a view, a pass through collection
for the elements in names list, you could say that not only was the short list ordered, but the elements
represented in the source array list names list elements.
One, two, three were also ordered for what's next.
Let's try altering the view.
So go back to our main method for posting some more Cotan here.
And you can see what I've done there with this new code, I'm adding an element on to The View I will.
But what does this actually do?
Let's actually run this.
You can see from the airport the code confirms that we've actually added on to the underlying array
list and sorted the names as well.
So given that what happens if I alter the source list names list, let's try to demonstrating that.
Process again, in the main method.
You can see what we're trying to do is we're trying to add the element bred and index position six names
list.
They could say that that works and execute as well, and you could see bread has been added successfully
to the list, but I back to my method again.
The thoroughness that's pretty short list by penning this line to the main method, the compilation
errors, but if we run this.
We actually get an exception, they can send exceptions online, 56.
Which was the card we had it.
Concurrent modification exception and the problem with it is once you change the list, which the view
was based on, the view is no longer usable.
So I'm going to undo that change, specifically deleting like 56.
So in the one zero eight one nine part one course are provided several examples of the two static methods
copy of.
And of course, it's important to remember that both of these methods return an immutable list.
The copy of Method creates a copy of the list passed to it.
The other method produces an immutable list from a set of arguments zero to many, each of which represents
a list element.
So let's bring go back to the code, we're going to add a couple of samples here.
Going to post this again at the bottom of our method.
So I'm using a copy of Method to create a copy of names list, which are then subsequently print out.
Next, I create a new list using the immutable copy and try and add a member to the new list.
Obviously, we've got no compilation errors there if we run the code.
Everything works.
But if you go back to the car and the last line we're trying to pin this code, the code composers can
see their.
But if we try to run this now, remember, we're using the copy test we created using a copy of a long
58.
We actually get an exception here and supported operation exception.
The priest at the list I created with a copy of cannot be changed.
So looking at these two examples again.
We need to review these in the one instance I used, the imitable is created by Koppio and assigned
directly to a local variable.
No changes can be made to this list represented by the variable copied list.
And we saw the exception.
But on the other hand, I passed the imitable list to the constructor of a realist.
The result list in this case is not immutable.
And we saw that that worked when we did an ad online, 62.
All right.
So just under that last change.
So let's now consider the method briefly.
This method is a helper method allowing you to create lists, the comma delimited list of elements that
we actually use this method in the first line of code, in the main method so that I can have a look
at that.
See that line 18?
Well, we passed the immutable collection to the constructor of the array list, which uses the elements
in the list.
So the copy of an off methods are easy to get confused.
You'll likely see code that shows them being used as part of constructors as well as being simply assigned
to local variables that do not be surprised if you see code that interchanges the arguments.
All right.
Let's end it here and in the next one, or swing over and start looking at cues.
See you in the next video.